---
layout: blog
categories: blog
title: NDIST'13
---

This year's New Directions In Software Technology (NDIST) workshop is
focusing on computating and biology.  In particular, synthetic
biology.  Lots of interesting things going on.[^0]

[^0]:I didn't decide to blog on this until after about half of the
first day.  So, forgive lack of detail.

Opening talk gave some great examples of using biological systems to
model Boolean algebra.  I asked the question of why we use biology to
mimic abstractions derived from circuits.  The great answer I got was
that we're not.  Boole did his work as a mathematical abstraction and
*not* tied directly to circuits.  What we're doing is implementing a
useful abstraction, not mimicing digital circuits.  I wonder why when
not start with a Turing Machine rather than Boolean algebra, but I
think one can argue one is certainly prerequisite for the other.

Jay Sussman (MIT) gave a talk entitled "We Don't Understand Computing"
that was pretty interesting.

Interesting small group discussion.  One thing that came out is that
circuits have two concepts of time while biology adds a third that it
replicates.

Thoughts from the day:

1. Turnaround time for synthetic biology builds is horrifically long in
   comparison to other technologies.  This is not fatal, but suggests
   there is a long way to go.
1. We do not have our abstractions set yet.  We don't have Kirchoff or
   Ohm for biological systems.  We're trying to hide that with Boole,
   but that's fine.
1. I still think we're trying to jam biology in to digital computing
   rather than bringing computing to biology.  The A-Machine was not
   binary.  The first computers were not binary.  We discovered
   binary's utility later.  Maybe that will happen here as well.

Quotes from the day:

> Don't shoot yourself in the foot with that sliver bullet - Jay
  Sussman

> When new complexities are discovered in systems, scientists publish
  papers abou them, characterize and study them.  Engineers try to
  figure out the hell to get rid of them.  - John Knight (paraphrased)


